How to Read the Vibration You are Emitting and Change it in 3 Easy Steps
By Lauren

“There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.” ~ Albert Einstein

 
Nikola Telsa wasn’t kidding when he famously hinted that to understand the universe you needed to think in terms of frequency, vibration and energy.

This article is not an exploration of the scientific aspects of frequency, but an exploration of the practical approaches we can take; first to discover, and then to experiment with the frequency we are emitting in order to manifest the life we want.

Welcome to a journey of intense self realization that will require the acceptance of personal sovereignty and the insistent pursuit of, and desire for personal integrity.

So we can break down the enquiry into two easy steps: first to uncover or expose ourselves to the truth of the vibration we are currently emitting, and secondly to shift it to one we would rather be.

 
The latter will potentially take the rest of our lives, but then that’s half the fun isn’t it? What we will find is that as soon as we go from here to there, we will discover knowledge that will inform us further and possibly change our perspective of what we do want, which might not be what we imagined in the first place. That’s the fun part.

In this way we might better understand depression as a resistance of this process; we so fiercely resist, terrified of what perceived mistakes we might make on the way to arriving at the conclusion of what we want that we remain immobile.

But in this state of resistance we forget the paradox; we must get it wrong in order to ultimately get it right.

 

“Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.” ~ Albert Einstein


One: Uncovering the frequency
Your outer world reflects your inner one, but this huge clue is still so easy to ignore, especially when you are not ready to change your whole life. Better change one thing at a time and the rest will be pulled; tornado-like, in along with it.

So first you will want to discover what area you would like to change. This in itself could take a few months of contemplation; feeling around in your energetic field and vibrational patterns. A great practice is to ask yourself questions to test the truth of the response. Am I ready for a relationship? Yes (feels untrue). Why not? What’s holding me back?



Another way is to feel around for what you do want, using the outer/inner world framework as a guide. For example; say you have a terrible laptop, a hunk of junk that crashes on most occasions. Then imagine what sort of machine you’d like to have; a cute, shiny little white notebook that fits in your bag.

Allow yourself to reflect on the difference in emotions between the two; you will discover the first reflects sensations of lack and the latter of abundance. But then you knew that already. Deep down, we all know it. What we need to get to the bottom of is why we’re allowing ourselves to tread water in the lake of lack.

 
Use polarity to locate both the frequency you’re emitting and the one you want to be. If you have been living as a poor person, wallowing in lack, then there is already in existence a rich version of yourself just waiting for you to line up with him or her. Get over it, it’s physics.

“Logic will get you from A to Z; imagination will get you everywhere.” ~ Albert Einstein

Two: Taking it into your being
Collect as many sensations of abundance as with the laptop visualization as you want and then meditate on them. You’ll probably find that your rational mind will flip ahead to how you’re going to get these things and through which means. Bring it lovingly back to the sensation, as that’s all that matters.

Try to be as specific as possible; as with the laptop, as I’ve found vaguely saying ‘I am abundant’ doesn’t get you anywhere. Combine focusing on these wonderful sensations with deep breathes that honour equal breaths in and breaths out.

This could also be an exploration of why you’re unable to give or receive. If the out breath is giving and the in receiving, experiment with changing the rhythm and note how it shifts the emotional body.



Without rationalizing, once you sense you have hit upon a direct, positive and loving ‘desire’ – such as a laptop – take it into your being. Feel what it would be like if you were given one out of the blue.

You may be desiring this new laptop but are still imagining it outside of you; beyond reach. Or perhaps you’re imagining that you need to work and suffer for many long hours before you could ever afford it. The universe doesn’t respond to logic.

It only responds to vibration and frequency. So imagine that you have it. You won it or were given it – doesn’t matter by who – how would you feel? You may find that what’s blocking all these wonderful things and experiences you very much deserve is the belief that the universe doesn’t love you that much and would never do something so nice.

Let yourself off the hook and serve yourself up some kindness for heaven’s sake. You are the universe! Give it as a gift to yourself and allow yourself to slip into that vibration whenever you remember to.

It may help to use other visualization techniques to correctly ’take the vibration into your being’. The cup of unconditional love technique has you sipping the vibration to take it from outside to in, or the waterfall where it rains down on you from above are two such techniques.

You can also do this with the bank where you imagine going to a cash point and then ‘drinking’ the gold that comes out of it.

“Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.” ~ Albert Einstein

Three: Release
This final stage is just as important as the other two and if missed may never have you reaping the rewards of your efforts. You may even find that all it takes is one big ‘wish’ or desire to be correctly sent to the heavens to get it granted, rather than having to keep sending it out there.



Either way, releasing means sending rockets up to the heavens, or simply releasing that sensation of abundance you have locked into in order for the universe to work its magic.

Correctly releasing means lovingly giving up your wish and trusting that there are forces beyond you that understand how to sort out the details. Being allowing is quite an art; it means that you first let go(giving up could even be the way into this, without beating up on yourself of course), and then stay open to opportunity.

Open to opportunity is an amazing way to live. That is completely letting go all control over your life and knowing that there are truly magical and expansive timelines shooting about above your head that are quite literally beyond your wildest dreams.

Don’t you understand that there is stuff out there that is beyond your imagination that you can never manifest on your own?

Give over the control to the higher love and it will see you home. Isn’t it time you let yourself and your life be extraordinary? Let go and stay open to anything that might come knocking. The purpose of your life is to enjoy it. How great is that? We are truly loved.

“Once you can accept the universe as matter expanding into nothing that is something, wearing stripes with plaid comes easy.” ~ Albert Einstein

So there it is; the art of manipulating vibration without the sciency bit. We all know that at the end of mathematics is creativity and at the heart of creativity is some sort of chaotic logic, so why worry?

Words are not enough when it comes to an understanding of frequency, because we are all party to it and it could just be the difference between an average life and an extraordinary one.

 
Once we truly comprehend the futility of holding back and begin to truly live, is when time disappears and the rest of our delicious lives stretch out before us.

Let’s get started, shall we?