The balance between intention and surrender is a delicate one. Intention is getting clear on what we want, and surrender is trusting in the best outcome. 
On the one hand, if you over intend, you’re trying to make things happen; on the other, if you over surrender, then you’re lazy, lethargic, and you’ll make a minimal effort. 
It’s a bit of a razor’s edge, which is why I think we have to lay down the very thing we’ve used our whole life to get what we want, for something greater to occur. 
It sounds easy enough until we have to put it into practice.⁣
⁣
If you’re familiar with my work, by now you’ve heard me say a thousand times that to create something out of nothing, we need to match a clear intention with an elevated emotion. 
But that’s just the beginning. Next, we need to remain in the energy of that creation—day in and day out. (This is where our meditation practice comes into play.) 
Then, we surrender the how of how our creation shows up. This means we’re not only trusting a greater mind is organizing our creation in a way that’s right for us, 
but we allow it to unfold in a new and different way than what we had previously planned or anticipated. Think about it—if you knew what to do you probably would have done it already. 
That’s called the known.⁣
⁣
But the moment we start to feel frustrated, impatient, angry, or resentful, however, we’ve disconnected from the energy of our future, 
and more than likely it’s because we’re trying to force, control, predict or manipulate outcomes. 

Why does this happen? Because those emotions cause us to feel separate from our creation; thus, we’re not surrendering, allowing and trusting in this greater mind. 
Instead, we’re approaching creation as matter trying to change matter, rather than our energy organizing matter. 

If you are trying to control and predict when and how it should happen, then you’re back in the known. 
That’s because your prediction is more than likely you ‘thinking’ about some known possibility from your memory of the past and trying to forecast that outcome into the future.⁣
