Mind Exercise #1: 

Deleting Distractions
You’ll begin your "Maximal Mindset Exercise Program" by learning an excellent technique for managing mental distractions. 

Anytime you notice yourself becoming overly distracted you can respond by putting this mind exercise into action.

Mind Exercise #2: 

The Aware Mind
This exercise will train you to intuitively know how to stay focused on the present and to, noncritically, see thoughts as just thoughts. 

This allows you to experience the moment as it is and move on from there with whatever you have at this moment, without feeling overwhelmed by your circumstances. 

Mind Exercise #3: 

A Moment of Mindfulness
This exercise will allow you to “listen to” and “look at” our own mental landscape. Doing so will give you an understanding of your typical perspective, and ultimately give you the ability to calibrate your thoughts and change your perception.

Mind Exercise #4: 

The Relaxed Mind
This exercise will train you to recognize the difference between tension and relaxation, so you can attain a deep state of muscular relaxation.

While practicing this relaxation exercise, you will also be practicing your skills of focusing and concentration. Distracting or intrusive thoughts tend to disappear while you are directing your thoughts towards the accomplishment of specific tasks. This is a highly useful skill. 

Mind Exercise #5:
 
The Visual Mind
The mind creates its own reality. This mental exercise will allow you to harness the power of visualization, which can be directed towards any number of tasks or goals. 

As you perform this exercise consistently, you will notice your inner vision becoming a little clearer and a little more “real” each time. 

Mind Exercise #6:
 
The Physical Mind
This exercise will teach you to control the responses of your autonomic nervous system. You will learn to recognize your own ability to control sensations of heat, heaviness, calm or coolness. 

So the more important question is this: if you can control sensations of coolness, warmth and heaviness, can you also do so to control nerves? Stress? Or pain? The answer is yes. Practice this exercise and you will reap huge rewards. 

Mind Exercise #7: 

The Focused Mind
This exercise will help you develop the skill to automatically direct your attention to those things in your life which require your attention. 

The way this exercise works is that through regular practice, old habits of subconscious awareness or “default thinking” are replaced with intentionality. 

And intention is the essence of focus. The ability to direct your thoughts when and where you want them to go.

Mind Exercise #8: 

The Disciplined Mind
This simple mental exercise will enhance your mental toughness and train your mind and body to exceed it's previous limits.

Through consistent practice, this exercise will allow you to become increasingly comfortable with doing uncomfortable things, thereby training your self-discipline and willpower. Both of which are highly valuable attributes.
